---
title: What's new in version 25.01?
description: Get to know the features, fixes, and functionality new in webforJ version 25.01.
slug: whats-new-v25.01
date: 2025-05-19
authors: webforJ
tags: [webforJ, v25.01, release]
image: "https://docs.webforj.com/release_blog/_images/social-cover-24.22.png"
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

webforJ 25.01 is a targeted release that introduces the `Tree` component and marks the debut of startforJ, a new tool designed to simplify project scaffolding for webforJ developers.

## New `Tree` component

The `Tree` component in webforJ has been introduced and provides a feature-rich way for developers to build hierarchical data structures. This component is designed to handle complex tree-like data models, and offers a wide range of customization options for visual presentation and user interaction. 

<div 
  style={{
    display: 'flex', 
    justifyContent: 'center', 
    margin: '1rem 0', 
    width: '100%'
  }}
>
  <video width="80%" height="500px" controls>
    <source src='https://cdn.webforj.com/webforj-documentation/video/release/tree.mp4' type="video/mp4" />
  </video>
</div>

Here's a quick look at some of the features that will be available to developers when using the new `Tree` component:

### Node expansion and collapse
Easily manage the expanded or collapsed state of nodes to present information in a more organized manner. You can also programmatically expand or collapse nodes based on the application's logic.

### Using icons in a `Tree`

Each node in the tree can have its own icon, allowing you to visually differentiate between different node types. Here are the main icon types you can set:

- **Collapsed Node Icon** - Shown when a group node is collapsed, typically a folder icon.
- **Expanded Node Icon** - Shown when a group node is expanded, indicating its children are visible.
- **Leaf Node Icon** - Used for terminal nodes that have no children, like files in a file tree.
- **Selected Leaf Node Icon** - Used for leaf nodes that are currently selected.
- **Per-Node Icons** - Custom icons for individual nodes, providing fine-grained control over appearance.
- **Per-Node Selected Icons** - Custom icons for individual nodes when selected, enhancing visual feedback.

For example:

```java
Tree tree = new Tree();
TreeNode rootNode = Tree.node("root").setIcon("dwc:folder").setSelectedIcon("dwc:folder-open");
TreeNode fileNode = Tree.node("file.txt").setIcon("dwc:file");
tree.add(rootNode, fileNode);
```

Additionally, you have the flexibility to show or hide icons for group and leaf nodes, allowing for a more streamlined or visually distinct tree layout. For example:

```java
tree.setGroupIconsVisible(false);  // Hide icons for group nodes
tree.setLeafIconsVisible(true);    // Show icons for leaf nodes
```

### Connection Lines

For a more structured appearance, you can enable connection lines between parent and child nodes, or disable them for a cleaner, minimalist design. This allows you to control the overall visual hierarchy and readability of the tree.

### Example `Tree`

Below is an example of a `Tree` component that could be used in an app:

<ComponentDemo 
path='/webforj/tree?' 
javaE='https://raw.githubusercontent.com/webforj/webforj-documentation/refs/heads/main/src/main/java/com/webforj/samples/views/tree/TreeView.java'
height="450px"
/>

## Introducing startforJ

[startforJ](https://docs.webforj.com/startforj/) is a powerful new tool for quickly generating webforJ apps. It provides a simple, guided interface that walks you through the process of creating a fully configured project, complete with a pre-defined structure, necessary dependencies, and starter code.

<div class="videos-container">
  <video controls>
    <source src="https://cdn.webforj.com/webforj-documentation/video/archetypes/starforj.mov" type="video/mp4" />
  </video>
</div>

With startforJ, you can select from a range of predefined [archetypes](../../docs/building-ui/archetypes/overview), each designed to provide a strong starting point for different types of webforJ apps. Beyond just scaffolding, startforJ allows you to customize key project settings like group ID, artifact ID, version, and package name. It also supports customization of application themes and icons, giving you full control over your app's initial look and feel.

Once your project configuration is complete, startforJ can package your app as a downloadable ZIP file, or directly push it to a GitHub repository for easy collaboration.

Creating a new project with startforJ can be as simple as:

1. Visiting the startforJ website.

2. Selecting an appropriate archetype.

3. Customizing project settings, including name, icon, and theme.

4. Downloading the generated project as a ZIP file or pushing it to GitHub for immediate collaboration.

For more information on startforJ, see the [Getting Started](../../docs/introduction/getting-started) article to read more.
